Could we talk a little bit about around 1971, the
mechanics involved, what the government did to
combine the lines when Amtrak came out into
existence? Yes. When Amtrak came into existence,
the government legislation was prepared to
create them. The railroads that had passenger
trains running, had the option of either
continuing to run them themselves and suffer
whatever losses or consequences they wanted to
suffer, or join Amtrak. And Amtrak then would
contract with them to operate the trains. And they
were taking over equipment was rapidly reaching
the end of its useful lifetime. And to give you an
example of some of the equipment problems they had
when this came about, most all the railroads
joined Amtrak because they wanted to get out of
this money losing mess that they were in. Only the
Southern and the Rio Grande and the, I don't know,
the three maybe that go to Florida. I can't tell you
which ones they were, but the Southern Crescent
remained the Southern's Crescent, and they ran
that passenger train and did not join any of that.
They have now joined the Rio Grande. got a
passenger train that they ran, and now it's into
the Anchorage area. I don't think it's Rock
Island. There were three, I think, all the way from
here. They did this, and all of a sudden,
on
the Texas Chief, and then was renamed the Lone
Star, We had Santa Fe Concess trains that came in
here, all the cars matched, all of them had the same
kind of air conditioning, for example, and our
low-level cars, they were all steam-actuated air
conditioners. Now, the person that maintained
those cars at night, when the train came in and
checked out everything, knew that air
conditioning system very well. The high-level
cars that the Santa Fe ran were a different air
conditioning system, but again, they were all
alike. So there were two air conditioning
systems, one for the high-level and one for the
low-level. That's all they had to contend with,
and they had spare parts and all that sort of stuff.
All of a sudden, you had trains coming in with cars
on them from all kinds of railroad lines. And I
remember one night, the Lone Star came in, And it
had
a Waukesha Pierce air conditioner that was out on
one car. But then steam-activated Santa Fe was out
on another car. And this was in the summertime. And
they had a mechanical air conditioning deal that
was out on a third one. Three different kinds of air
conditioners. And no parts stopped. It was a
disaster. One of the things that has come about in
Amtrak that has really revolutionized this thing
and really been a turnaround as far as equipment is
concerned is that Charlie Luna, who is on the board
of directors of Amtrak and is a tech scientist from
Dallas, Florida, conceived the idea that we
should convert All of the older equipment is still
good enough to operate. They should convert it all
to what he calls head-in power. So no matter what
kind of air conditioning system is on this car,
it's going to be removed and it's going to be
replaced with electrical heat and air
conditioning. Electricity provided by a big 640
volt generator in the engine. So you have to train
line this electricity back, 640 volt electricity
back. That, of course, costs a lot of money for a car
to convert. But it gives you something that works.
And standardized and works. And there's this plan
and they've done that now so that all the heritage
equipment, ones that are inherited from the
railroads, have all been converted to head-end
power, every one of them. And all the steam,
activated air conditioning, steam heating is all
gone. So it's, and all the new equipment that's
heading down, all the new super liners that they
produce, the high-level cars, have you been on
them? Have you been here? Oh, yeah, they're really
great. And they're out of the way expensive, you
know. The
sleeping accommodations up in the
top are just for something like $20, $25 a night,
more than it takes to get there. And, you know, it's
not killing you. It's not a price that will drive
you home. The Amtrak essentially is... Re-built.
They re-built everything. They've either got
brand new... Now,
over on the east coast, they have to run . They won't
have .
one
of the things that
the power that Superlion cars have in contrast to
the last few years is one of the things that we need
to look at. And they've got an available dispute
and a trial that's been going on for about two
years. And it's pretty clean to believe that
Superlion is going on for a long time. And in the
meantime, things are just going downhill. a
lot
of a lot of what happened .
. . so
much You
said that you're interested in Midwestern
swimming and Chinese swimming. When did that come
about? Yeah, when I started that way, you know,
this isn't the only good thing about it. It's about
feeling real good about it. Have
y'all
had problems getting the private part to be pulled
by one side? Oh, you've got to tell your daddy on
that, so he can go through both on both. I
don't know how I'm going to call it. One
other thing that I think is very important. I
was at one time on the board of directors. And that
was the first time I was on the board of directors
meeting. We were the only job in Canada that served
people providing the end vaccine that they were
contracted to run. And we got a reporting of more
than one increase of the capacity in New Orleans.
They
were dispatching a local freighter. And I'm sure
you all can think of it right. He dispatched a local
freighter towards San Quentin in the U.S. So that
means that San Quentin would be walking around and
cutting out stuff and leaving it on the side and
putting stuff up. Working all the way to the end of
the day at the perfect time. Then he dispatched a
few more freighters at two feet which was blocked
by the locusts. So even that was rancid. Then he
dispatched his insects to harm the people. Then
the sunset limited that night to something like
nine and a half hours late getting to Houston. Can
you imagine why it was nine and a half hours late?
Well, that was the kind of evidence that was
presented to the federal chief by the
presentation. and
instead of being We've
been having performances that were 30% on time,
and they balled it into the ladies and stuff like
that. Just overnight. Just overnight. There was
one big lawsuit. So sometimes I think that's who
you are. You've just got to see somebody in order to
get to the point. and
the passenger writing letters to some of these and
all that. It's probably been some other format. In
order to change anything, I don't know, Marvel
realizes that it is an impact of a political act
that does exactly what the Congress tells it to do.
Dr.
Matney, I appreciate you taking the time to look
over my outline and for giving me this interview
this morning. Thank you.